#summary Announcing FlexMonkey 0.5!

= FlexMonkey 0.5 is Here! =

  * Enhanced support for running FlexMonkey from build systems such as Ant.
  * Easier to use FlexMonkey with FlexUnit as well as non-FlexUnit test runners.

== _Things you should know before running older FlexMonkey tests with 0.5_: ==

FlexMonkey is now broken out into two separate projects under the trunk.

  * *FlexMonkey* provides core record/playback functionality
  * *FlexMonkeyUI* provides the UI

Each of these projects produces its own swc (*FlexMonkey.swc* and *FlexMonkeyUI.swc*). Essentially, you use FlexMonkeyUI.swc when you are interactively developing and running tests using the FlexMonkey Window. Use FlexMonkey.swc to run your tests from Ant or when using a different test runner than the FlexUnit runner that's built into FlexMonkeyUI.

The API has changed slightly and is mostly compatible with pre-0.5 FlexMonkey tests. A few classes have moved out of *com.gorillalogic.flexmonkey* and into some *new packages* so you will need to change your imports for the following classes:

_FlexCommand, CallCommand, and PauseCommand_ have moved to *com.gorillalogic.flexmonkey.commands*.

_MonkeyEvent and MonkeyUtils_ have moved to *com.gorillalogic.flexmonkey.core*.

_FlexMonkey_ has moved to *com.gorillalogic.flexmonkey.ui*.

Sorry for any inconvenience. The project of course in its very early days and so we're still getting things organized! We anticipate the API being quite stable moving forward from here.

= Running FlexMonkey from Ant! =

Download the sample and see the README.

And watch for the [RunningFromAnt tutorial] which we'll be posting shortly.


